# Delmar-Divide-Digital-Humanities-Project-DBA-Katie-Kramer-
  	Hello! My name is Katie Kramer, and I have put together this project for a Digital Humanities course at Washington University in St. Louis. This project is a searchable data set containing a vast array of reliable resources for research, study, and analysis of the Delmar Divide in St. Louis, Missouri. The Delmar Divide is a term used to describe the stark racial and economic dividing line between the predominantly white neighborhoods to the south of Delmar Boulevard and the predominantly African-American neighborhoods to the north of Delmar Boulevard. This disparity is one of the clearest and most alarming examples of racial and economic segregation in the United States. 
	
	My project on the Delmar Divide functions as a convenient collection of resources related to both the creation of the Delmar Divide as well as the consequences of this reality for residents living on and around Delmar Boulevard. Taking the form of a data set, this project serves as a valuable resource for those interested in researching and analyzing the Delmar Divide. The key questions that guide my project are the following: What characterizes the “Delmar Divide”? What factors led to the existence of the “Delmar Divide” in the first place? What are the roles of institutions, structures, stigmas, and attitudes in perpetuating these inequalities?
	
  My approach to answering these inquiries is research-focused, as most of my time was spent gathering, consolidating, and presenting a large quantity of information in a clean and organized way. This digital humanities project is a historical analysis of sorts, as it joins digital pedagogy with digital history and the basics of archival work. Though there are other DH projects that concentrate on the Delmar Divide, my data set is unique in terms of the large scope of a variety of types of data, and because I am not constraining myself to one investigative or analytical lens. Currently, much of the digital humanities scholarship surrounding the Delmar Divide selects an area of focus through which to analyze the qualities of the Delmar Divide and the experiences of residents. With my project, I have built a data set that encompasses many types of data, involving not just demographic information or personal testimonies, but also illuminating the intersections between public policy, historical redlining, racial and socioeconomic biases, discrimination, prejudice, housing, education, and more. 
  
  To fully comprehend what characterizes the Delmar Divide and the lived experiences of those affected by it, it is crucial that we examine the joint forces that contributed to its initial formation and to its subsequent persistence. The breadth and diversity of the data I included allows my project to stand out as a digital repository that allows for an especially comprehensive overview, investigation, analysis, and critique of the Delmar Divide. My project, then, enhances the humanities by providing an organized digital repository that contains myriad types of data and is not limited by the selection of one specific analytical lens. 
  
  As a resident of Delmar Boulevard, this research is something that has been interesting to me for years, and it was fascinating for me to delve into both how the divide has developed and how it impacts life today. However, I hope that the audience for this project is broader than just myself and includes St. Louisans, scholars, historians, students, policy experts, law makers, activists, urban planners, educators, and anyone else who may be interested. By compiling an expansive array of resources related to the Delmar Divide, I aim to present a data set that offers convenient access to information and materials for others to use and explore on their own. 
	
  Takeaways from the Delmar Divide are vastly applicable to other urban planning efforts, public policy debates, activism, and community reform efforts. Additionally, the history of the Delmar Divide can help people more thoroughly comprehend how the spheres of government, public policy, education, culture, the job market, socioeconomics, gentrification, discrimination, and stereotyping, among others, interact to inform a complex, multi-layered reality.
	
  I hope this repository proves useful for whatever your purposes may be!
